Bywaf user documentaiton
========================

Bywaf is a command-line tool for streamlining web application firewall
auditing. It consists of a command-line interpreter and a set of
plugins.  For the user, Bywaf supports tab-completion for most
commands, and an easy process for installing and using plugins. Bywaf
has been designed with forward compatibility and is compatible with
both Python 2.x and Python 3.x.

By convention, this document uses <tab> and <enter> to denote Tab
Enter keypresses, respectively.


Table of contents
----------------

1. Getting started



Getting started
---------------

To start Bywaf, type "python bywaf.py".  Bywaf's shell will open with
a greeting:

  $ python bywaf.py
  Welcome to Bywaf
  Bywaf/>
  
On its own, Bywaf does not do very much; the bulk of Bywaf's
functionality lies in its library of plugins.  To load a plugin, issue
the "use" command.  It tab-completes filenames, so if you hit <tab>,
you will see something like this:

  Bywaf/>use p<tab><tab>
  .git               INSTALL.txt        TODO            README.txt        
  copyright.txt      plugins            bywaf.py        docs

Type "p" and strike <tab> again, and Bywaf will auto-complete "p" to
"plugins/".  As you continue typing and pressing <tab>, Bywaf will
either auto-complete the word to the matching filename, or present you
with a list of partially matching files.  Once you have your plugin's
name entered, press <enter> to issue the command.  Here, we have
loaded the Example Plugin:

  Bywaf/>use plugins/beta/exampleplugin.py
  loaded example plugin
  Bywaf/exampleplugin>
  
As the plugin loads, it displays "loaded example plugin" as a
greeting.  From here, we can explore the options commands it provides.

  Bywaf/>show
  
  Option      Value    Default    Required  Description
  ----------- ------   ---------- --------  -----------

  FILENAME                        No         Name of the file to display
  SLEEP_SECONDS         10        Yes        Number of seconds to sleep
  
  
  Command              Description
  -------------------- --------------------
  cat                  display contents of a file
  choice               Select a subcommand
  sleepfunction        sleep for a few second


Pressing <tab> while entering a parameter to the "show" command causes
it to complete for option names.

By default, or with "show all", the "show" command displays a plugin's
options and commands.  To show just its options, type "show options".
To show a particular option, type "show option" and either hit <tab>
to get a list of available options, or type an option name explicitly.
You can apply this same methodology to inspecting a plugin's command;
issue the "show commands".

In the screen capture above, the first table shows the available
options for this module.  In particular, for each option, the table
lists:

  - Option: the name of the option;
  - Value: the current value of the option;
  - Default: the default value of the option;
  - Required: whether or not this plugin requires this option for its
    commands; and
  - Description: a description of the option

Below the options table lies the commands table.  This table lists:

  - Command: the name of the command; and
  - Description: a description of the command 

To set an option, use the option "set" command:

  Bywaf/exampleplugin>set FILENAME /etc/passwd
  FILENAME => /etc/passwd
  
To see the result, run the "show" command with the name of the option
you wish to see:

  Bywaf/exampleplugin>show FILENAME
  FILENAME: /etc/passwd

To issue a command, enter the command's name:

  Bywaf/exampleplugin>cat
  
In this example, the "cat" command will output the contents of the
file in FILENAME.  If FILENAME is already set, and we want to run
"cat" on a different file, specify it a parameter ("cat" tab-completes
filenames):

  Bywaf/exampleplugin>cat /etc/password


Global options
--------------
Global options are options available to all plugins.


Backgrounding tasks
-------------------

Running scripts
---------------

Scripts are lists of commands, one per line.
3 ways of doing this:  by piping redirecting user input from standard
input:

  cat script.txt | python bywaf.py
  
Or on the command-line:

  python bywaf.py --input=script.txt
  
With the --script flag, Bywaf will ... <-- remove script flag?

  python bywaf.py --script=script.txt
  
Or   


# FIXME: finish


  

2. Common commands

A list of common commands appears below, along with a descriptions of
each command's tab-completion behavior: 

  - use:  select a module.  Tab-completes filenames.
  
  - kill: ends a running command.  Tab-completes to running
    commands in the job queue.
    
  - d: removes a completed command from the job queue.
    Tab-completes to completed commands in the job queue.
    
  - result: displays the return result of a completed command.
    Tab-completes to completed commands in the job queue.
    
  - script: executes a script given a filename.  A script is a
    list of commands, one per line.  Among other things, this is useful
    for loading a configuration.  Tab-completes filenames.
    
  - gshow: shows global options.  Tab-completes global options.
  
  - set: when a plugin is loaded, set shows its options and
    functions available to the user.  Tab-completes option names.
    
  - show: shows the currently-selected plugin's options and
    commands available to the user.  Tab-completes option names.
    
  - shell: executes a command in a system shell.  Does not
    tab-complete.
    
  - history: shows, clears, loads and saves the command history.
    This is a multi-level command which first tab-completes "show",
    "clear", "load" and "save", and for "load" and "save"
    tab-completes filenames.




Order of option precedence
--------------------------

Bywaf follows this order of precendence for options:

  1.  Command line 
  2.  Global and plugin options
  3.  parameters to Bywaf commands
